.startblock/knowledge/src_git_operations.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/git/operations.ts
fileVersion: 7e019c662dfbf93f083367ec7fb1cde1a1698639
lastUpdated: '2025-11-15T19:00:33.360Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - git
  - typescript
  - new
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Git Operations Documentation

## Purpose
This file provides a wrapper around the `simple-git` library to facilitate common Git operations such as retrieving staged files, obtaining file hashes, viewing diffs, and staging files. It abstracts the complexities of direct Git command usage.

## Key Functionality
- **getStagedFiles()**: Returns a list of files that are currently staged for commit. Filters out any empty lines from the output.
- **getFileHash(filePath: string)**: Retrieves the latest Git hash for a specified file, returning `null` if the file has no commit history.
- **getFileDiff(filePath: string)**: Provides the diff for a specified staged file, returning `null` if the file is not staged or an error occurs.
- **addFiles(files: string[])**: Stages the specified files for commit. Logs an error message if the operation fails.

## Gotchas
- **Error Handling**: While the code attempts to catch errors, it only logs them without throwing. This can lead to silent failures where the caller may not be aware that an operation did not succeed. Consider implementing a more robust error handling strategy that communicates failure to the caller.
- **Empty Results**: The `getStagedFiles` method returns an empty array instead of throwing an error when an error occurs. This could lead to confusion if the caller expects an error to be raised for a failed operation.
- **File Path Validity**: The `getFileHash` and `getFileDiff` methods assume that the provided file paths are valid and exist in the repository. If a non-existent file path is passed, it will return `null`, which may not be the expected behavior.

## Dependencies
- **simple-git**: This library is chosen for its simplicity and ease of use in executing Git commands programmatically. It abstracts the complexities of direct command-line interactions with Git, making it easier to implement Git operations in TypeScript.

## Architecture Context
This module serves as a utility layer for Git operations within a larger application that may involve version control features. It allows other components to interact with Git without needing to understand the underlying command-line intricacies, promoting separation of concerns and enhancing maintainability.

## Implementation Notes
- **Performance Considerations**: The use of `git.diff` and `git.log` can be relatively expensive operations, especially in large repositories. Consider caching results if these methods are called frequently with the same parameters.
- **Default Repository Path**: The default repository path is set to the current working directory (`process.cwd()`). Ensure that this behavior is appropriate for your application's context, as it may lead to unexpected results if the working directory is not a Git repository.
- **Async/Await Usage**: The implementation uses async/await for handling asynchronous operations, which improves readability. However, ensure that the calling context properly handles these promises to avoid unhandled promise rejections.

## Developer Notes

Commit message:

feat: add interactive wizard-style knowledge capture with opt-in Q&A
- Implement opt-in 'Oh great wizard' prompt for developer insights
- Single open-ended question instead of structured Q&A
- Triple-Enter (2 consecutive empty lines) to submit input
- Confirmation loop allowing insight refinement before commit
- SACRED WORDS approach: preserve developer's exact words (no sanitization)
- Add TTY context explanation for Git hook compatibility
- Add getLastCommitMessage() to GitOperations for context
- Increase input timeout to 10 minutes for longer responses

.startblock/knowledge/src_git_operations.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/git/operations.ts
fileVersion: 73caec7ca66a98f267aa4ae1de89f334c7f2c911
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T01:35:49.781Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - git
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Git Operations Documentation

## Purpose
This file provides a wrapper around the `simple-git` library to facilitate common Git operations such as retrieving staged files, file hashes, diffs, and the last commit message.

## Key Functionality
- **getStagedFiles**: Returns a list of files that are currently staged for commit.
- **getFileHash**: Retrieves the Git hash of a specified file, returning `null` if the file has no commits.
- **getFileDiff**: Obtains the diff of a staged file, returning `null` if the file is not staged or an error occurs.
- **addFiles**: Stages a list of files for commit.
- **getLastCommitMessage**: Fetches the last commit message, providing a default message if no commits are found or an error occurs.

## Gotchas
- **Error Handling**: The catch blocks in the asynchronous functions return default values (e.g., empty arrays or nulls) without throwing errors. This can mask underlying issues, making debugging difficult. Ensure to log errors for visibility.
- **Empty Returns**: Functions like `getStagedFiles` and `getFileHash` can return empty or null values, which may lead to unexpected behavior if not handled properly in the calling code.
- **Default Commit Message**: The `getLastCommitMessage` method returns "Recent changes" if there are no commits or if an error occurs. This could be misleading if the user expects a meaningful message.

## Dependencies
- **simple-git**: This library is used for its simplicity and ease of use in executing Git commands programmatically. It abstracts away the complexities of direct Git command-line interactions, making it easier to implement Git functionalities in TypeScript.

## Architecture Context
This module is part of a larger system that likely involves version control operations within a development environment. It serves as a utility for other components that require Git functionalities, promoting code reuse and separation of concerns.

## Implementation Notes
- **Performance Considerations**: Each method makes asynchronous calls to the Git repository, which can be slow depending on the repository size and the number of files. Consider caching results where applicable to improve performance.
- **Promise Handling**: All methods return Promises, which allows for asynchronous handling of Git operations. Ensure that the calling code properly awaits these Promises to avoid unhandled rejections.
- **Extensibility**: The interface can be easily extended to include more Git operations as needed, allowing for future enhancements without significant refactoring.
- **Default Parameters**: The `createGitOperations` function uses `process.cwd()` as the default repository path, which is a reasonable choice for most use cases but may need to be overridden in specific scenarios (e.g., when working with multiple repositories).
