.startblock/knowledge/src_core_analyzer.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/core/analyzer.ts
fileVersion: 7e019c662dfbf93f083367ec7fb1cde1a1698639
lastUpdated: '2025-11-15T19:00:33.359Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - core
  - typescript
  - new
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Knowledge Documentation for `src/core/analyzer.ts`

## Purpose
This file orchestrates the analysis of staged files in a Git repository, enhancing AI-generated documentation with developer insights through an interactive Q&A process.

## Key Functionality
- **analyzeCommit**: Main function that manages the analysis workflow, including loading configuration, filtering files, building a dependency graph, and generating knowledge documentation.
- **askQuestion**: Handles user input, supporting both TTY and non-TTY environments, ensuring reliable input collection.
- **generateQuestionsForFile**: Creates specific questions based on whether a file is new or modified, aimed at extracting developer insights.
- **refineAnalysisWithAnswers**: Enhances initial AI-generated analysis by incorporating user-provided context and insights.

## Gotchas
- **Input Handling**: The `askQuestion` function uses `readline-sync` for non-TTY environments to avoid issues with input buffering. Be cautious when running in environments where standard input may not behave as expected (e.g., certain CI/CD pipelines).
- **Timeouts**: The interactive Q&A has a 3-minute timeout. If the user does not respond in time, the analysis will continue without their insights, which may lead to incomplete documentation.
- **File Version Check**: The code skips analysis for files that have not changed (same version). Ensure that the file versioning logic aligns with your Git workflow to avoid missing updates.
- **Error Handling**: Errors during user input are caught and logged, but the process continues. This could lead to incomplete documentation if not monitored.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: Used for colorful console output, enhancing user experience during interactions.
- **nanospinner**: Provides a lightweight spinner for indicating ongoing processes, improving user feedback during long-running tasks.
- **fs/promises**: Utilized for file operations, leveraging the promise-based API for better async handling.
- **OpenAIClient**: Central to generating AI-based analyses, this dependency abstracts the interaction with OpenAI's API.

## Architecture Context
This module is part of a larger system aimed at automating documentation generation for code changes. It interacts with Git operations, configuration management, and AI services, creating a seamless workflow for developers to document their code effectively.

## Implementation Notes
- **Interactive Q&A**: The design allows for a flexible interaction model, adapting to different environments (TTY vs. non-TTY). This is crucial for usability in various contexts, including Git hooks.
- **Performance Considerations**: The dependency graph is built for relevant files only, optimizing the analysis process. However, if the number of staged files is large, this could still introduce latency.
- **Error Resilience**: The implementation includes multiple layers of error handling to ensure that the analysis process can continue even if certain steps fail. This is particularly important in collaborative environments where user input may vary.
- **User Insights Integration**: The approach to refine AI-generated documentation with user insights is designed to maintain the original structure while adding developer context, enhancing the relevance and accuracy of the documentation.

## Developer Notes

Commit message:

feat: add interactive wizard-style knowledge capture with opt-in Q&A
- Implement opt-in 'Oh great wizard' prompt for developer insights
- Single open-ended question instead of structured Q&A
- Triple-Enter (2 consecutive empty lines) to submit input
- Confirmation loop allowing insight refinement before commit
- SACRED WORDS approach: preserve developer's exact words (no sanitization)
- Add TTY context explanation for Git hook compatibility
- Add getLastCommitMessage() to GitOperations for context
- Increase input timeout to 10 minutes for longer responses

.startblock/knowledge/src_core_analyzer.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/core/analyzer.ts
fileVersion: 73caec7ca66a98f267aa4ae1de89f334c7f2c911
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T01:35:49.779Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - core
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/core/analyzer.ts`

## Purpose
This file orchestrates the analysis of staged files in a Git repository, enhancing knowledge documentation with developer insights and AI-generated analysis.

## Key Functionality
- **analyzeCommit**: Main function that coordinates the analysis workflow, including fetching staged files, analyzing them with OpenAI, and gathering developer insights.
- **askYesNo**: Prompts the user with a yes/no question, handling both TTY and non-TTY environments.
- **askMultiLine**: Collects multi-line input from the user, allowing for a "brain dump" of insights.
- **enhanceWithInsights**: Integrates developer insights into the AI-generated analysis, preserving the original language and context.

## Gotchas
- **TTY vs Non-TTY Mode**: The file differentiates between TTY (interactive terminal) and non-TTY (e.g., Git hooks) modes. In non-TTY mode, it uses `readline-sync` for reliable input handling. Failing to account for this can lead to input issues in automated environments.
- **Input Timeouts**: Both `askYesNo` and `askMultiLine` functions implement timeouts (3 minutes and 10 minutes, respectively). If the user does not respond in time, the promise will reject, which may lead to unhandled promise rejections if not properly managed.
- **Empty Input Handling**: In `askYesNo`, if the user provides an empty response, the function defaults to the `defaultNo` parameter. This behavior may not be intuitive for users expecting a strict yes/no input.
- **Developer Insights Preservation**: The function `enhanceWithInsights` explicitly states that developer's words are "sacred" and should not be sanitized. This is crucial for maintaining the authenticity of insights but may lead to informal language being included in documentation.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: Used for colorful console output, enhancing user experience during prompts and feedback.
- **nanospinner**: Provides a lightweight spinner for indicating ongoing processes, improving user feedback during lengthy operations.
- **readline** and **readline-sync**: These libraries are used for user input handling, with `readline-sync` being essential for non-TTY environments to ensure reliable input.
- **OpenAIClient**: This is the main interface for interacting with OpenAI's API, crucial for generating AI-based analysis of the code.

## Architecture Context
The analyzer operates within a larger system that integrates AI capabilities to enhance developer documentation. It works closely with Git operations to analyze staged files, leveraging context from the codebase and developer input to create meaningful knowledge documentation.

## Implementation Notes
- **Performance Considerations**: The analysis process is designed to handle multiple files efficiently, but care must be taken to manage timeouts and user input gracefully to avoid blocking operations.
- **Error Handling**: The code includes several try-catch blocks to manage errors gracefully, particularly around user input and file operations. This is essential for maintaining a smooth user experience, especially in interactive contexts.
- **User Interaction Loop**: The interactive insight gathering loop allows for multiple rounds of input, enabling developers to refine their insights. However, it requires careful management of state (e.g., `continueLoop` flag) to ensure proper flow.
- **Timeouts**: The use of timeouts for user input is a critical design decision to prevent the application from hanging indefinitely. However, it also introduces the risk of losing valuable insights if users are not aware of the time constraints.
