.startblock/knowledge/src/core/analyzer.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/core/analyzer.ts
fileVersion: 73caec7ca66a98f267aa4ae1de89f334c7f2c911
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T01:35:49.779Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - core
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/core/analyzer.ts`

## Purpose
This file orchestrates the analysis of staged files in a Git repository, enhancing knowledge documentation with developer insights and AI-generated analysis.

## Key Functionality
- **analyzeCommit**: Main function that coordinates the analysis workflow, including fetching staged files, analyzing them with OpenAI, and gathering developer insights.
- **askYesNo**: Prompts the user with a yes/no question, handling both TTY and non-TTY environments.
- **askMultiLine**: Collects multi-line input from the user, allowing for a "brain dump" of insights.
- **enhanceWithInsights**: Integrates developer insights into the AI-generated analysis, preserving the original language and context.

## Gotchas
- **TTY vs Non-TTY Mode**: The file differentiates between TTY (interactive terminal) and non-TTY (e.g., Git hooks) modes. In non-TTY mode, it uses `readline-sync` for reliable input handling. Failing to account for this can lead to input issues in automated environments.
- **Input Timeouts**: Both `askYesNo` and `askMultiLine` functions implement timeouts (3 minutes and 10 minutes, respectively). If the user does not respond in time, the promise will reject, which may lead to unhandled promise rejections if not properly managed.
- **Empty Input Handling**: In `askYesNo`, if the user provides an empty response, the function defaults to the `defaultNo` parameter. This behavior may not be intuitive for users expecting a strict yes/no input.
- **Developer Insights Preservation**: The function `enhanceWithInsights` explicitly states that developer's words are "sacred" and should not be sanitized. This is crucial for maintaining the authenticity of insights but may lead to informal language being included in documentation.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: Used for colorful console output, enhancing user experience during prompts and feedback.
- **nanospinner**: Provides a lightweight spinner for indicating ongoing processes, improving user feedback during lengthy operations.
- **readline** and **readline-sync**: These libraries are used for user input handling, with `readline-sync` being essential for non-TTY environments to ensure reliable input.
- **OpenAIClient**: This is the main interface for interacting with OpenAI's API, crucial for generating AI-based analysis of the code.

## Architecture Context
The analyzer operates within a larger system that integrates AI capabilities to enhance developer documentation. It works closely with Git operations to analyze staged files, leveraging context from the codebase and developer input to create meaningful knowledge documentation.

## Implementation Notes
- **Performance Considerations**: The analysis process is designed to handle multiple files efficiently, but care must be taken to manage timeouts and user input gracefully to avoid blocking operations.
- **Error Handling**: The code includes several try-catch blocks to manage errors gracefully, particularly around user input and file operations. This is essential for maintaining a smooth user experience, especially in interactive contexts.
- **User Interaction Loop**: The interactive insight gathering loop allows for multiple rounds of input, enabling developers to refine their insights. However, it requires careful management of state (e.g., `continueLoop` flag) to ensure proper flow.
- **Timeouts**: The use of timeouts for user input is a critical design decision to prevent the application from hanging indefinitely. However, it also introduces the risk of losing valuable insights if users are not aware of the time constraints.

Commit message:

fix old commit used instead of current during analysis

.startblock/knowledge/src/core/analyzer.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/core/analyzer.ts
fileVersion: 12dc6d2e377d61939e2cf493b9f741e44fc70d3b
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T04:14:46.853Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - core
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/core/analyzer.ts`

## Purpose
This file orchestrates the analysis of staged files in a Git commit, leveraging AI to enhance knowledge documentation with developer insights. It ensures that relevant files are analyzed and that valuable contextual information is preserved for future reference.

## Key Functionality
- **analyzeCommit**: Main function that manages the entire analysis workflow, including fetching staged files, running AI analysis, gathering developer insights, and writing knowledge files.
- **createReadlineInterface**: Sets up a readline interface for user input, adapting to TTY and non-TTY environments.
- **askYesNo**: Prompts the user for a yes/no response, handling both TTY and non-TTY contexts.
- **askMultiLine**: Collects multi-line input from the user, allowing for a "brain dump" of insights.
- **enhanceWithInsights**: Integrates developer insights into the analysis results, preserving the original wording.

## Gotchas
- **Commit Message Retrieval**: The method for getting the commit message was changed from `getLastCommitMessage` to `getCurrentCommitMessage`. Ensure that this change is understood, as it now retrieves the message being written rather than the last one.
- **Input Handling**: The code uses `readline-sync` for non-TTY contexts (like Git hooks) to ensure reliable input. Be cautious when testing in different environments, as the behavior may vary.
- **Timeouts**: Both `askYesNo` and `askMultiLine` functions implement timeouts (3 minutes and 10 minutes, respectively). If the user does not respond in time, an error is thrown, which can lead to unexpected exits if not handled properly.
- **File Version Check**: The logic skips files that have not changed (same version). Ensure that this behavior aligns with the intended analysis scope, as it may lead to missed insights on files that have been modified but not updated in the knowledge base.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: Used for colorful console output, enhancing user experience during prompts and messages.
- **nanospinner**: Provides a lightweight spinner for indicating progress during file analysis and writing operations.
- **fs/promises**: Utilized for asynchronous file operations, ensuring non-blocking behavior during file reads and writes.
- **readline** and **readline-sync**: These libraries are crucial for handling user input in both interactive terminal sessions and non-interactive contexts (like Git hooks).

## Architecture Context
This module is part of a larger system that integrates AI capabilities into the software development workflow. It interacts with Git to analyze staged files and enhance documentation with developer insights, contributing to a more informed and maintainable codebase.

## Implementation Notes
- **AI Analysis**: The integration with OpenAI is critical for generating insights based on file content and context. Ensure that the OpenAI client is properly configured and that API limits are considered during heavy usage.
- **Performance Considerations**: The analysis loop processes each relevant file sequentially. For large repositories, consider implementing parallel processing to improve performance. However, be mindful of API rate limits when doing so.
- **User Experience**: The interactive prompts are designed to be user-friendly, but they may require adjustments based on user feedback. Pay attention to how users interact with the prompts and consider adding more guidance if necessary.
- **Error Handling**: The code includes various try-catch blocks to handle errors gracefully. Ensure that any new features maintain this level of robustness to avoid disrupting the user experience.

## Developer Insights

Fixed my mistake of using get last commit message on git instead of using the one the user would currently want to submit. I added a new function to get the current in the ops.ts & updated the analyzer to show files properly. Late night coding mistake 😅.

*Captured during commit: migrate knowledge docs into directory style & update knowlege-writer for new knowlege organization*
