.startblock/knowledge/src/index.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/index.ts
fileVersion: 73caec7ca66a98f267aa4ae1de89f334c7f2c911
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T03:56:30.602Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/index.ts`

## Purpose
This file serves as the entry point for a command-line interface (CLI) tool, allowing users to execute various commands related to knowledge capture in codebases, such as initializing the tool and analyzing commits.

## Key Functionality
- **main()**: The primary function that handles command execution based on user input. It utilizes a switch-case structure to determine which command to invoke.
- **showHelp()**: Displays usage instructions and examples for the CLI commands available to the user.
- **Commands**:
  - `init`: Initializes the Startblock in the current repository.
  - `analyze-commit`: Analyzes staged files, typically used in conjunction with Git hooks.
  - `sim-intro`: Simulates an introductory animation for the CLI tool.

## Gotchas
- **Error Handling**: The `main()` function includes a try-catch block to handle errors gracefully. If an error occurs during command execution, it logs the error message and exits the process with a non-zero status. Ensure that any command functions (like `initCommand` or `analyzeCommitCommand`) throw meaningful errors to provide context.
- **Command Parsing**: The command is derived from `process.argv`, which can lead to unexpected behavior if the input is malformed or if additional arguments are passed. The first argument is expected to be the command; if it's missing or unrecognized, the help message is displayed.
- **Help Command**: The CLI supports both `--help` and `-h` as aliases for displaying help. Users might overlook this if they are unfamiliar with the CLI's structure.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: This library is used for styling console output, enhancing readability and user experience. It allows for colored text, which can help differentiate between commands, errors, and informational messages.
- **Command Modules**: The commands are imported from separate modules (e.g., `initCommand`, `analyzeCommitCommand`, `simulateIntroCommand`). This modular approach promotes separation of concerns and makes the codebase easier to maintain and extend.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of a larger CLI application designed for automatic knowledge capture in software development. It interacts with various command modules that encapsulate specific functionalities, allowing for easy extension of features without cluttering the main entry point.

## Implementation Notes
- **Asynchronous Execution**: The commands are awaited, which is crucial for ensuring that the CLI does not exit before the command completes. This is particularly important for commands that may involve I/O operations, such as file analysis.
- **Performance Considerations**: The CLI is designed to be lightweight, but performance can be impacted by the complexity of the commands executed. For example, `analyzeCommitCommand` may involve file system operations that could slow down execution if not optimized.
- **Common Mistakes**: Developers adding new commands should ensure they are properly registered in the switch-case structure and that they handle errors appropriately. Additionally, they should update the `showHelp()` function to include information about new commands to keep the help documentation in sync with available functionality.

## Developer Insights

Decided to improve the text displayed during the intro, I added a command as well to simulate the intro, you can now trigger it using sb sim-intro. Figlet works well for the nice fonts. Nothing tricky to report.

*Captured during commit: chore: remove deprecated Husky v9 lines from pre-commit hook*

Commit message:

fix knowledge file staged after husky hook

.startblock/knowledge/src/index.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/index.ts
fileVersion: f6c8261bf0d12bd7bbaedab1d580a29191da7a30
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T21:33:52.204Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/index.ts`

## Purpose
This file serves as the entry point for a command-line interface (CLI) tool designed to facilitate automatic knowledge capture for codebases. It processes user commands and delegates tasks to specific command modules.

## Key Functionality
- **main()**: The main function that orchestrates command execution based on user input. It handles errors and displays help messages.
- **showHelp()**: Displays usage instructions and examples for the CLI commands available.
- **Command Handling**:
  - `init`: Initializes the tool in the current repository.
  - `analyze-commit`: Analyzes the commit message, expecting a file path as an argument (passed by Git hooks).
  - `sim-intro`: Simulates an introductory animation.

## Gotchas
- **Argument Handling**: The `analyze-commit` command expects a second argument (`args[1]`), which is the path to the commit message file. If this argument is not provided (e.g., if the command is run manually without a Git hook), it may lead to unexpected behavior or errors.
- **Error Handling**: The catch block captures any error thrown during command execution and logs it. However, it does not differentiate between types of errors, which may obscure the root cause during debugging.
- **Unknown Commands**: If an unknown command is provided, the CLI will display an error message and show the help text. This behavior is crucial for user experience but can lead to confusion if users expect a different response.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: This library is used for styling console output, enhancing readability and user experience. It provides colored text for error messages and help instructions, making it easier for users to identify important information.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of a larger CLI tool that likely interacts with Git and other development processes. It is designed to be extensible, allowing additional commands to be added easily. The modular command structure (e.g., `initCommand`, `analyzeCommitCommand`) suggests a focus on separation of concerns, where each command handles its specific functionality.

## Implementation Notes
- **Asynchronous Execution**: The use of `async/await` allows for non-blocking command execution, which is essential for maintaining responsiveness in CLI applications. However, developers should be cautious about unhandled promise rejections that could crash the application.
- **Performance Considerations**: The CLI's performance is generally acceptable for typical use cases, but if the `analyze-commit` command processes large files or numerous files, performance may degrade. It is advisable to implement optimizations or feedback mechanisms for long-running processes.
- **Common Mistakes to Avoid**: Developers should ensure that the correct number of arguments is passed to commands, particularly for `analyze-commit`. Additionally, they should be aware of the context in which the CLI is executed (e.g., within Git hooks) to avoid confusion regarding expected inputs.

## Developer Insights

Changed the approach for the current commit instead of using the pre-commit now we use the commit-msg from husky to get the current commit message reliably. This had a domino effect on a couple files from operation to analyzer. Then we ran into the issue of permissions when using the sb cli so we added a postbuild script to make the index.js execuatable after each build.

*Captured during commit: fix getCurrentCommit & update readme*
