.startblock/knowledge/src/test.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/test.ts
fileVersion: c9195ce7c6fa8898eeb1c76c09b9707b7b1346f2
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T23:04:51.315Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/test.ts`

## Purpose
This file contains utility functions for formatting names and validating email addresses. It provides two versions of each functionality, demonstrating different error handling approaches.

## Key Functionality
- **formatName1**: Returns a formatted string combining the first and last names without validation.
- **validateEmail1**: Validates an email address using a regular expression, returning `true` if valid and `false` otherwise.
- **formatName2**: Similar to `formatName1`, but throws an error if either the first or last name is missing, enforcing stricter input validation.
- **validateEmail2**: Checks if the email string is empty before applying the regex validation, returning `false` for empty inputs.

## Gotchas
- **Error Handling in `formatName2`**: Unlike `formatName1`, `formatName2` will throw an error if either name is missing. This can lead to unhandled exceptions if not properly managed in the calling code. Always ensure that inputs are validated before calling this function.
- **Regex Limitations**: The regex used in both `validateEmail1` and `validateEmail2` is a basic pattern and may not cover all valid email formats as per the official specifications (RFC 5322). Be cautious when relying on this for critical email validation.
- **Empty String Check in `validateEmail2`**: The check for an empty string is a simple safeguard, but it does not account for strings that may contain only whitespace. Consider trimming the input before validation if whitespace is a concern.

## Dependencies
- **Regular Expressions**: The use of regex for email validation is a common practice due to its efficiency in pattern matching. However, it is important to be aware of its limitations and potential false positives/negatives.

## Architecture Context
This file serves as a utility module that can be integrated into larger applications requiring user input handling, such as forms or user registration systems. It is essential for ensuring that user data is formatted correctly and validated before processing.

## Implementation Notes
- **Performance Considerations**: The regex operations are generally efficient for typical use cases but can become a performance bottleneck if called excessively in a loop or with a large dataset. Monitor performance if integrating into high-frequency operations.
- **Common Mistakes**: Developers may forget to handle exceptions thrown by `formatName2`, leading to runtime errors. Always wrap calls in try-catch blocks or ensure inputs are validated beforehand.
- **Future Enhancements**: Consider extending the email validation to cover more edge cases or using a dedicated library for comprehensive email validation if this functionality is critical to the application.

## Developer Insights

This was built in a rush my manager was on my ass. This is super basic but I think the intern for summer 26 could work on this. I'm tired...

Commit message:

improve test.ts validate email function

.startblock/knowledge/src/test.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/test.ts
fileVersion: 96fa4a83dd4ea6883d66aaf5423fff415719888d
lastUpdated: '2025-11-20T22:24:45.041Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
## Purpose
This file contains utility functions for formatting names and validating email addresses in TypeScript.

## Key Functionality
- `formatName1(firstName: string, lastName: string): string`: Returns a formatted name as a string.
- `validateEmail1(email: string): boolean`: Validates an email address using a regex pattern.
- `formatName2(firstName: string, lastName: string): string`: Returns a formatted name and throws an error if either name is missing.
- `validateEmail2(email: string): boolean`: Validates an email address with a simple null check.
- `validateEmail3(email: string): boolean`: Validates an email address with additional checks for input type and length.

## Gotchas
- `validateEmail2` will return `false` for `undefined` or `null`, but it does not check for empty strings, which could lead to false positives in some cases.
- The `formatName2` function will throw an error if either `firstName` or `lastName` is missing; this behavior must be handled by the caller to prevent crashes.
- The new `validateEmail3` function is more robust but introduces additional checks that may not be necessary for all use cases, potentially leading to confusion about when to use each validation function.

## Dependencies
No external dependencies are used in this file; it relies solely on TypeScript's built-in types and regex capabilities.

## Architecture Context
This file serves as a utility module that can be used across the application for common tasks related to name formatting and email validation. It promotes code reuse and consistency in handling these operations.

## Implementation Notes
- The decision to implement multiple email validation functions (`validateEmail1`, `validateEmail2`, `validateEmail3`) suggests a need for varying levels of validation, but care should be taken to document when to use each function to avoid confusion.
- Performance considerations are minimal due to the simplicity of the regex patterns, but developers should be aware that regex can become a bottleneck if used excessively or with complex patterns.

## Developer Insights

These functions seem redundant but I don't give a fuck. We just need something better now. We can clean it up later. We won't use all validateEmail function just the one with the highest number meaning that it's the most evolved.
