.startblock/knowledge/src/server/api/livekit.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/server/api/livekit.ts
fileVersion: 57491bcac0bca1c30b9bc5ae0d853f915763fc4e
lastUpdated: '2025-12-16T01:14:10.238Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - server
  - api
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
feature: livekit-integration
featureRole: entry_point
userFlows:
  - User can generate a LiveKit token for video sessions
  - User can join a video room based on session ID
relatedFiles:
  - ../../config/loader.js
---
# Purpose
This file sets up API routes for generating LiveKit tokens, essential for user sessions in a video conferencing context.

# Key Functionality
- `setupLiveKitRoutes(repoRoot: string): Router`: Configures the Express router to handle LiveKit token generation requests.

# Gotchas
- The removal of default credentials means that the application now strictly requires environment variables or configuration files for LiveKit setup, increasing security but also requiring proper setup before deployment.
- If the LiveKit configuration is incomplete, it returns a 400 error; however, it does not validate the format or correctness of the provided URLs or keys, which could lead to runtime errors if they are invalid.
- The room creation process is idempotent; if a room already exists, it silently continues without throwing an error, which is a design choice that can lead to confusion if not documented properly.
- The access token is generated with a unique identity based on the current timestamp, which may lead to potential conflicts if multiple requests are processed in quick succession.

# Dependencies
- `livekit-server-sdk`: Used for creating rooms and generating access tokens for LiveKit, which is crucial for enabling video conferencing features.
- `loadConfig`: Loads configuration settings, allowing for dynamic setup based on environment variables or configuration files.

# Architecture Context
This file is part of the server-side API that integrates with LiveKit to facilitate real-time communication features in the application. It serves as a bridge between client requests and the LiveKit service, ensuring that users can join video sessions securely.

# Implementation Notes
- The decision to rely solely on environment variables or configuration files for LiveKit credentials enhances security but requires careful management of these settings.
- The error handling strategy for room creation is lenient, which may simplify user experience but could obscure issues if room management is not well understood by developers.

Commit message:

feat: default livekit access to hosted env
- server: require LiveKit creds from server env only; no user-supplied keys during closed testing
- ui: allow hosted token endpoint via NEXT_PUBLIC_LIVEKIT_TOKEN_URL with fallback to local route
- docs/knowledge: clarify closed-testing flow and env-only credential handling

.startblock/knowledge/src/server/api/livekit.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/server/api/livekit.ts
fileVersion: c766688c23eea47221c7fbd5175bbbd63c3c579f
lastUpdated: '2025-12-17T01:30:42.349Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - server
  - api
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
feature: livekit-setup
featureRole: entry_point
userFlows:
  - User can generate a LiveKit token for onboarding sessions
  - User can create or join a LiveKit room for real-time communication
relatedFiles:
  - ../../config/loader.js
---
## Purpose
This file sets up API routes for generating LiveKit tokens and managing rooms for real-time communication.

## Key Functionality
- `setupLiveKitRoutes(repoRoot: string): Router`: Configures the Express router with a POST endpoint for generating LiveKit tokens.

## Gotchas
- LiveKit credentials are now strictly sourced from environment variables, and users of the CLI do not need to provide them, which can lead to confusion if not documented properly.
- The room creation process is designed to be idempotent; if a room already exists, the error is caught and ignored, which may lead to unexpected behavior if not understood.
- The access token generation includes permissions that allow users to join and interact with the room, which is crucial for ensuring proper access control during onboarding sessions.
- The room name generation uses the current timestamp if no session ID is provided, which may lead to non-unique room names if multiple requests are made in quick succession.

## Dependencies
- `express`: Used for creating the API routes.
- `livekit-server-sdk`: Provides the necessary classes for generating access tokens and managing rooms in LiveKit.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of the server-side implementation for handling real-time communication features, specifically focusing on token generation and room management for onboarding sessions.

## Implementation Notes
- The decision to source LiveKit credentials from environment variables simplifies configuration for end users but requires clear documentation to avoid confusion.
- The use of `Date.now()` for generating room names ensures that room names are unique unless multiple requests occur at the same millisecond, which could be a potential edge case to monitor for.
- The implementation handles errors gracefully, logging them and responding with a 500 status code, which is important for maintaining a good user experience during failures.
