.startblock/knowledge/src/commands/analyze-commit.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/commands/analyze-commit.ts
fileVersion: 7e019c662dfbf93f083367ec7fb1cde1a1698639
lastUpdated: '2025-11-15T19:00:33.356Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - commands
  - typescript
  - new
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/commands/analyze-commit.ts`

## Purpose
This file defines a command to analyze staged files before a commit is finalized, ensuring that any issues are caught early in the development process. It is specifically designed to be invoked by a Husky pre-commit hook.

## Key Functionality
- **analyzeCommitCommand**: An asynchronous function that calls `analyzeCommit()` to perform the analysis. It handles success and failure cases by logging appropriate messages and exiting the process with the correct status code.

## Gotchas
- **Error Handling**: The catch block captures any error thrown by `analyzeCommit()`, which may include user-initiated aborts. It's crucial to ensure that the error messages are user-friendly, as they will be displayed in the console.
- **Process Exit Codes**: The command exits with code `0` for success and `1` for failure. This behavior is essential for the Husky hook to function correctly, as a non-zero exit code will prevent the commit.
- **Asynchronous Behavior**: Since `analyzeCommitCommand` is asynchronous, any changes to the implementation of `analyzeCommit()` that affect its promise resolution could lead to unexpected behaviors if not handled properly.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: This library is used for coloring console output, enhancing the visibility of error messages. It helps in quickly identifying issues during the commit process.
- **analyzeCommit**: This core function is responsible for the actual analysis logic. Its separation from the command allows for better modularity and testing.

## Architecture Context
This command is part of a pre-commit hook system that aims to enforce code quality checks before changes are committed to the repository. It integrates with the Husky library to automatically trigger the analysis, ensuring that only code that passes the checks can be committed.

## Implementation Notes
- **User Confirmation**: The success of the command relies not only on the analysis completion but also on user confirmation. This is a design choice that prioritizes developer control over automated processes.
- **Performance Considerations**: The performance of this command is heavily dependent on the implementation of `analyzeCommit()`. If the analysis is resource-intensive, it could slow down the commit process, potentially frustrating developers. It's advisable to keep the analysis lightweight or provide options for skipping certain checks.
- **Common Mistakes**: Developers should avoid modifying the exit codes or error handling logic without understanding the implications on the commit process. Additionally, ensure that `analyzeCommit()` is robust enough to handle various edge cases to prevent false negatives or positives during analysis.

## Developer Notes

Commit message:

fix knowledge file staged after husky hook

.startblock/knowledge/src/commands/analyze-commit.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/commands/analyze-commit.ts
fileVersion: 73caec7ca66a98f267aa4ae1de89f334c7f2c911
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T21:33:52.198Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - commands
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `analyze-commit.ts`

## Purpose
This file defines a command that analyzes staged files during a Git commit process, specifically triggered by the Husky commit-msg hook. It ensures that the commit is blocked if the analysis fails or if the user aborts the process.

## Key Functionality
- **analyzeCommitCommand(commitMsgFile?: string)**: An asynchronous function that invokes the `analyzeCommit` method with an optional commit message file path. It exits the process with a success or failure code based on the analysis outcome.

## Gotchas
- **Hook Context**: This command is specifically designed to be called by the Husky commit-msg hook, not the pre-commit hook. Ensure that the correct hook is configured in your Husky setup to avoid unexpected behavior.
- **Error Handling**: The catch block captures any errors thrown during the analysis. If the user aborts the analysis, it will still log the error message, which may not always be clear to the user. Consider enhancing user feedback for better clarity.
- **Optional Parameter**: The `commitMsgFile` parameter is optional. If not provided, the `analyzeCommit` function should handle this gracefully. Ensure that the implementation of `analyzeCommit` can manage undefined inputs appropriately.

## Dependencies
- **chalk**: This library is used for colored console output, enhancing the visibility of error messages. It helps in quickly identifying issues during the commit process, which is crucial for user experience.
- **analyzeCommit**: This core function is responsible for the actual analysis logic. It is assumed to encapsulate the business logic for analyzing staged files, making the command modular and easier to maintain.

## Architecture Context
This command fits into a larger system that likely involves Git hooks for enforcing commit standards. By analyzing commits, it helps maintain code quality and consistency across the repository. The integration with Husky allows for seamless enforcement of these checks without requiring manual intervention from developers.

## Implementation Notes
- **Exit Codes**: The command uses process exit codes to indicate success (0) or failure (1). This is a standard practice in command-line applications, allowing other tools or scripts to react appropriately based on the outcome.
- **Performance Considerations**: Depending on the complexity of the `analyzeCommit` function, the analysis could introduce delays in the commit process. It's important to ensure that this function is optimized for performance, especially in large repositories with many staged files.
- **User Confirmation**: The comment in the code suggests that user confirmation is part of the analysis process. Ensure that this is implemented in the `analyzeCommit` function to avoid confusion about the commit's success or failure.

## Developer Insights

Changed the approach for the current commit instead of using the pre-commit now we use the commit-msg from husky to get the current commit message reliably. This had a domino effect on a couple files from operation to analyzer. Then we ran into the issue of permissions when using the sb cli so we added a postbuild script to make the index.js execuatable after each build.

*Captured during commit: fix getCurrentCommit & update readme*
