.startblock/knowledge/src/commands/gitflash.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/commands/gitflash.ts
fileVersion: unknown
lastUpdated: '2025-12-17T01:36:28.378Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - commands
  - typescript
  - new
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
feature: gitflash
featureRole: entry_point
userFlows:
  - User can document Git commit history
  - User can preview documentation changes before applying them
relatedFiles:
  - ../config/loader.js
  - ../utils/cost-estimator.js
  - ../utils/boxes.js
  - ../git/history.js
  - ../git/operations.js
  - ../core/file-scanner.js
  - ../core/openai-client.js
  - ../core/knowledge-writer.js
  - ../utils/intro.js
---
## Purpose
This file implements a command-line tool that analyzes Git commit history and generates documentation for changes made to files in a repository.

## Key Functionality
- `gitflashCommand`: Main function that orchestrates the command execution, including loading configuration, processing commits, and generating documentation.
- `parseGitflashOptions`: Parses command-line arguments to configure the command's behavior.
- `confirmAction`: Prompts the user for confirmation before proceeding with actions.

## Gotchas
- Using both `--all` and `--hash` options together will throw an error, which may not be clear to users.
- Files already documented are skipped, which might confuse users expecting to see all changes processed.
- The `dryRun` option prevents any changes from being made, and insights are not captured in this mode, which can lead to misunderstandings about the command's output.

## Dependencies
- `chalk`: Used for colorful console output to enhance user experience.
- `boxen`: Utilized for creating visually appealing boxes around messages in the console.
- `nanospinner`: Provides a spinner for indicating progress during operations, improving user feedback.
- `OpenAIClient`: Used for analyzing file content and generating insights, crucial for the documentation process.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of a larger system designed to automate the documentation of code changes in Git repositories. It interacts with Git operations and external APIs to enrich the documentation process, making it easier for developers to maintain knowledge about their codebase.

## Implementation Notes
- The command processes commits based on user-specified options, with a default limit of 20 commits if none is provided.
- The performance can degrade with a large number of commits or large file sizes, especially when using the `--all` option.
- The command ensures that knowledge files are only created for relevant changes, as determined by user-defined configurations, which helps in managing the documentation workload effectively.

Commit message:

add gitflash specific commit + all

.startblock/knowledge/src/commands/gitflash.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/commands/gitflash.ts
fileVersion: d41e59db13aa62aec5746fa874be5a4422d7eb22
lastUpdated: '2025-12-28T17:47:07.398Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - commands
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
feature: gitflash
featureRole: entry_point
userFlows:
  - User can analyze git commit history to generate documentation
  - User can preview changes before executing the command
  - User can skip already documented files to avoid redundancy
relatedFiles:
  - ../config/loader.js
  - ../utils/cost-estimator.js
  - ../utils/boxes.js
  - ../git/history.js
  - ../git/operations.js
  - ../core/file-scanner.js
  - ../core/dependency-graph.js
  - ../core/openai-client.js
  - ../core/knowledge-writer.js
  - ../utils/intro.js
  - ../prompts/templates.js
---
## Purpose
This file implements the GitFlash command which analyzes git commit history and generates documentation based on the changes.

## Key Functionality
- `gitflashCommand`: Main function that orchestrates the command execution, including loading configuration, processing commits, and generating documentation.
- `parseGitflashOptions`: Parses command-line arguments to configure the command's behavior.
- `printSummaryBox`: Displays a summary of the documentation process, including any files that were documented or skipped.

## Gotchas
- The command can be run in dry-run mode, which allows users to preview what would happen without making any changes, but care must be taken to ensure that the correct flags are used to avoid confusion.
- If both `--all` and `--hash` flags are used together, an error is thrown, which may not be immediately obvious to users.
- Files that are already documented for the specific commit will be skipped, which may lead to unexpected results if users are not aware of this behavior.

## Dependencies
- The file uses `OpenAIClient` for analyzing file contents, which is essential for generating insights but introduces a dependency on external service availability and response times.
- It also relies on various utility functions from other modules to handle file operations, configuration loading, and history management, ensuring modularity and separation of concerns.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of a larger system designed to automate the documentation of code changes based on git commit history. It integrates with various components, including configuration management, file analysis, and external APIs, to provide a comprehensive solution for generating knowledge documentation.

## Implementation Notes
- The implementation groups changed files by directory for batch processing, which can improve performance by reducing the number of individual operations performed on the file system.
- Error handling is crucial, especially when dealing with file operations and external API calls, as failures can lead to skipped files or incomplete documentation. The use of spinners provides user feedback during long-running operations, enhancing the user experience.
