.startblock/knowledge/src/commands/init.ts.md, before:

---
filePath: src/commands/init.ts
fileVersion: 73caec7ca66a98f267aa4ae1de89f334c7f2c911
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T21:33:52.202Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - commands
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/commands/init.ts`

## Purpose
This file initializes the StartBlock tool in a given repository by setting up necessary directories, configuration files, and Git hooks, specifically for capturing knowledge during code commits.

## Key Functionality
- **`initCommand()`**: The main function that orchestrates the initialization process, including directory creation, API key prompt, configuration file generation, and Husky hook setup.
- **`generateConfig(apiKey: string)`**: Generates a configuration JSON string with the provided OpenAI API key.
- **`promptUser(question: string)`**: Prompts the user for input and cleans the response by trimming whitespace.

## Gotchas
- **API Key Validation**: The API key must start with "sk-". If it doesn't, the user is informed, and the setup continues without a valid key. This can lead to confusion if the user believes they have entered a valid key.
- **Husky Setup**: The script checks for the presence of a `package.json` file before attempting to set up Husky. If it’s missing, the user is warned, but the process continues. This could lead to incomplete setup if the user expects Husky to be configured without a valid Node.js project.
- **File Permissions**: The script sets executable permissions on the Husky hook file. If the underlying filesystem does not support Unix-style permissions (e.g., on Windows), this may lead to unexpected behavior.

## Dependencies
- **`chalk`**: Used for colorful console output, enhancing user experience during the initialization process.
- **`fs/promises`**: Provides promise-based file system operations, allowing for cleaner asynchronous code.
- **`child_process`**: Used for executing shell commands (e.g., installing Husky), which is essential for setting up the environment.
- **`nanospinner`**: Provides a simple spinner for indicating progress during asynchronous operations, improving user feedback.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of a command-line interface (CLI) for the StartBlock tool, which integrates with Git to capture knowledge during code changes. It interacts with the filesystem and external processes to configure the environment, making it a crucial component for user onboarding and setup.

## Implementation Notes
- **Error Handling**: The script uses a try-catch block to handle errors gracefully, providing user-friendly messages and preventing abrupt termination.
- **Configuration Management**: The configuration file is created with a template if the user does not provide a valid API key, ensuring that the user can still proceed with the setup.
- **Performance Considerations**: The use of asynchronous file operations helps keep the CLI responsive. However, excessive file I/O (e.g., checking and writing to `.gitignore`) could be optimized if performance becomes an issue.
- **Common Mistakes**: Developers should ensure that they run this command in a valid Node.js project with a `package.json` file present to avoid issues with Husky setup. Additionally, they should be aware of the importance of protecting sensitive information like the API key by ensuring it is added to `.gitignore`.

## Developer Insights

Changed the approach for the current commit instead of using the pre-commit now we use the commit-msg from husky to get the current commit message reliably. This had a domino effect on a couple files from operation to analyzer. Then we ran into the issue of permissions when using the sb cli so we added a postbuild script to make the index.js execuatable after each build.

*Captured during commit: fix getCurrentCommit & update readme*

Commit message:

fix: switch back to pre-commit hook to include knowledge files

.startblock/knowledge/src/commands/init.ts.md, after:

---
filePath: src/commands/init.ts
fileVersion: bca7a57c90c5a2434483050c74be521fbca67f30
lastUpdated: '2025-11-16T21:50:03.663Z'
updatedBy: sb-cli
tags:
  - src
  - commands
  - typescript
importance: low
extractedBy: sb-cli@1.0.0
model: gpt-4o-mini
humanVerified: false
---
# Documentation for `src/commands/init.ts`

## Purpose
This file initializes the Startblock tool in a local repository by creating necessary directories, configuration files, and setting up Git hooks for automated analysis of code changes.

## Key Functionality
- **`initCommand()`**: The main function that orchestrates the initialization process, including creating directories, prompting for user input, generating configuration files, and setting up Husky hooks.
- **`promptUser(question: string)`**: Prompts the user for input, ensuring that any whitespace or newlines are trimmed from the response.
- **`generateConfig(apiKey: string)`**: Generates a JSON configuration string with the provided OpenAI API key.

## Gotchas
- **API Key Validation**: The API key must start with "sk-". If it doesn't, the user is informed, and a template config file is created without the key. This can lead to confusion if users expect the initialization to succeed without a valid key.
- **Husky Setup**: If the `package.json` file is missing, the Husky setup will be skipped, which may lead to users thinking the tool is fully functional when it isn't. Ensure that the command is run in a Node.js project.
- **File Permissions**: The script sets executable permissions on the Husky hook file. If the environment does not support this (e.g., Windows without WSL), the hook may not execute as intended.
- **Error Handling**: Errors during the initialization process are caught and logged, but the script exits with a non-zero status code, which may not be expected behavior for all users.

## Dependencies
- **`chalk`**: Used for colored console output to enhance user experience and provide clear feedback during the initialization process.
- **`fs/promises`**: Utilized for file system operations with promises, allowing for cleaner asynchronous code.
- **`child_process`**: Used to execute shell commands for installing and initializing Husky, which is crucial for setting up Git hooks.
- **`nanospinner`**: Provides a simple and effective way to show loading spinners, improving user interaction during long-running tasks.

## Architecture Context
This file is part of a command-line interface (CLI) for the Startblock tool, which integrates with Git to automate knowledge capture from code changes. It works in conjunction with other utility modules for file management and user interaction, forming a cohesive setup process for developers.

## Implementation Notes
- **Configuration Management**: The configuration file is generated based on user input, and a template is provided for team sharing. This approach ensures that sensitive information (like the API key) is not committed to version control.
- **User Experience**: The use of spinners and colored messages enhances the user experience by providing feedback on the progress of the initialization steps.
- **Performance Considerations**: The script performs file system operations and shell commands sequentially, which may introduce delays. However, the use of asynchronous functions helps mitigate blocking the main thread.
- **Common Mistakes to Avoid**: Ensure that the command is run in a valid Node.js project with a `package.json` file present to avoid skipping Husky setup. Also, remind users to validate their API key format to prevent issues during configuration.
